V1 3 years of Kestra (#1820)
kestra-io/docs: content/blogs/2024-10-07-3-years-of-kestra.md

date: 2024-10-0710T12:00:00
category: Company News
author:
  name: Ludovic Dehon
  image: "ldehon"
  role: "CTO & Co-Founder"
image: 
---

Before Kestra officially became what it is today, its roots began in my early career. I started as a self-taught developer about 20 years ago, working mainly with **PHP**, like many developers in France who were building websites at the time. Over time, I transitioned through various roles, including working in startups and doing freelance projects. My goal was always to create products that could solve complex technical problems.

Around **2010**, while working at **Ankama**, I created the first version of what would later inspire **Kestra**. It was a simple solution to manage **distributed Cron jobs**, allowing monitoring and control of tasks across multiple servers. At the time, I called it **CronDD**, a reference to the traditional Unix **cron** jobs. The idea was to define and monitor scheduled tasks in a distributed way, but it was still a far cry from what Kestra would eventually become.

> Fast forward to **2019**, when I was at **Leroy Merlin France**. The company was migrating from **Terradata** to **Google Cloud's BigQuery**, and they needed a way to orchestrate complex workflows that interacted with a variety of data systems. **Airflow** was the obvious choice, given that it had become the leader in the orchestration space. But after spending few months analyzing it, I realized it wouldn’t fit the use cases of Leroy Merlin, the philosophy of dag defined in Python, the high constraint of security, and scalabilities needed was not meet. That’s when I started to seriously consider building my own orchestrator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fast forward to **2019**, when I was at **Leroy Merlin France**. The company was migrating from **Terradata** to **Google Cloud's BigQuery**, and they needed a way to orchestrate complex workflows that interacted with a variety of data systems. **Airflow** was the obvious choice, given that it had become the leader in the orchestration space. But after spending a few months analyzing it, I realized it wouldn’t fit the use cases of Leroy Merlin, the philosophy of a DAG defined in Python, and the lack of important security and scalability features resulted in low adoption across a company. That’s when I started to seriously consider building my own orchestrator.
```
